Excellent.
Our CSX journey finally has led us to media queries and the reason why media queries are so so cool
in the CSX is because they allow us to work with responsive design and in a nutshell they allow us to
style elements depending on a screen size so we can have different styles on different screen size and
with the projects.
There is obviously going to be more complicated examples with column sizes and all kinds of things.
However for now I would just want to show you the basic example where there is going to be a div and
what is going to work with some properties.
Now with media queries we're going to be working with men with and Max with and again rule of thumb
would be that men with is going to be starting from.
So just remember this and the max would be up to you and in general we're gonna do mobile first.
We're all going to start all our styling from the small screen and then we're gonna be adding the media
queries as our screen size gets bigger.
Because that would be probably easier than working with the desktop and then going the opposite direction.
But as always we're going to see all this throughout this example and in the next session email again
we're gonna do a very simple one.
Going to say there's gonna be Dave we can maybe add this again some class and is Dave let's call this
a binary and then within the heading One we're gonna say Hello world I'm learning I'm learning CSX learning
CSX once this is going to be saved I mean obviously my writing at the moment is hideous but maybe we
can fix this by adding this I mean this is gonna be a little bit better or we can just add the text
capitalized that we already have learned and once we head over back to the CSX we can start styling.
Well let's do some again awful examples with colors.
We're gonna write out here body is going to be let's say background yellow again just so you can be
mad at me and then once we have the background yellow how we're gonna go with the banner.
So the day of that as a class a banner and I would like to add a I don't know background Blue Note that
this is going to be my choice.
Now last but not least I would like to head over to having one.
We know that we can use the element selector and let's color white and text.
Like I said let's do not text the line or you know what.
Yeah maybe let's start out.
Text center then we can do text declaration and add maybe another underline as well as we have an option
of text and then here I would like to work not with the commemoration not with aligning not with shadows
in fact or to want to work with text text text text text text transform sorry.
And that was gonna be capitalization and this is how this text is gonna look like and this screen size.
Now the thing is we haven't that the media squared so what's happening is and I'm going to show you
right now on a bigger screen that regardless of the screen size.
This is our Web page is going to look like and let's say we decide that OK this is perfect for mobile
view.
So once the screen size is small and this is awesome however as the screen size gets bigger I would
like to change some things around.
I don't think that my users would like the yellow color and maybe some other properties.
Okay.
So how do we do that.
Well working with media queries the syntax would be like this.
We need to have the ad and then we're looking for media.
Now we need to write media and then we write screen.
Now it is important the syntax here.
Because if you're gonna make some kind of small even syntactical error your media query is not going
to work.
And maybe if I were going to remember I'm going to show you this.
Once we set up the media query but even the smallest space is gonna matter.
And trust me because I'm getting questions already on the course.
So yeah this is happening.
So you need to be kind of very careful about not that mean your side is gonna break.
It's just your media query is not going to work.
So here we're looking for men with and will be the syntax.
And now we can use whatever values you would want.
Now in my case I'm going to use pixels but again remember you can use our yams if you want or anything
like like you would like and let's say here 576.
So what I'm saying is starting from s 576 there is gonna be some kind of rules now that can be different
roles.
They can be the same properties with different values.
This is really up to you.
So let's start here.
Let's say body.
So starting from 576 what is going to happen to the body.
Well designers suggest me that the body should be background red.
OK.
That's a good start.
And then I'm going to be looking for a different background for the main.
So I'm going to say not Main Street banner.
So I'm going to write for the banner we would want background and let's say yellow.
So I'm going to kind of not flip it technically because this is our label and then for the heading One
and this is where I would like to add some more styles.
So I'm going to stay here.
I don't know what color is gonna be black and that I'm gonna be looking for the font size font size
is gonna be I don't know 60 pixels.
So basically this is gonna be massive.
Okay.
And we don't see anything there's no changes yet.
But the thing is we are not past the 576 because again when we need to remember is that this notation
means that starting from that screen size and since I don't want to mess up this view we all gonna head
over again to the bigger browser and you can already see the changes.
Now when the changes are happening now we can see that once the screen size is less than 576 the moment
we're gonna get past five seventy six.
Then we're gonna be getting new stuff.
Now you want to see it a little bit more.
We can do obviously as always our development tools and what happens here on the right hand corner you
are probably seeing here the actual width of the screen now what's happening here this is saying five
minutes.
Now the reason why this is happening because obviously I have zoomed in here because I already have
set up my zoom so if I'm gonna set my zoom to let's say a hundred like it normally would be and just
for tutorial I think it's easier if we're gonna go actually again back to develop our tools you'll see
that this is actually happening from 5 10.
Now let me again make the smaller then we can do and this is not what I wanted to do.
My apologies.
We would need to go to 127.
Then I'm going to open up my developer those and then we can start looking here that starting from 576
the changes are going to happen.
Well there is actually a little bit better way in the developer tools how we can notice that.
So let me first make this again probably bigger.
And you know what I can just make this one maybe small.
And you know what.
What I would want while here I would like to zoom in and not over here but in actual document.
So let's zoom in.
Two hundred and then in the developer tools notice what we're going to have.
So we're gonna have the little thing where we can be looking at the screen sizes.
Now what I have right now I have the width of 400 and then of height of five hundred nine.
Now if I'm gonna be expanding this check it out.
So starting from five seventy six what's gonna happen.
Well I'm gonna see that we're gonna have our changes.
So those are the kind of two things that if you need to know that within the developer tools if you
want to check it out on different screen sizes you have this option.
You don't have to do the normal way.
However even if you're not doing this with the screen sizes you're still gonna be able to see we're
just going to be hard to see because it's going to be probably written in a small tent or something
like this.
Now back to the media queries.
Know what.
Let me just close the variable tools and let's take for this one now.
And like I said within the media query if I'm not adding this tax declaration underline if I'm not overwriting
this in 576 what happens is that the underlying still stays.
So even though I said that starting from 576 I would want some different property values on the heading
One because I didn't have this tax declaration on their line here.
This is the reason why it's still states and also have an option of adding the new property.
However this new property would 60 pixels is only going to work from that 576.
The moment we're going to be again back in the small screen.
This is not going to work.
Now we also have an option of adding as many media queries we would like to how this is going to work.
Well we just copy and paste it and you know what.
Before we do let me just do a little bit of undoing.
Let me show you where would be the mistake.
So what if I'm gonna do it like this.
What I'm gonna say media screen and then in between the end and the actual parentheses.
I'm not going to leave any kind of space do you think the media query is going to work or remember what
I told you is that even the smallest mistake is gonna make the big difference.
Now check this out.
It doesn't matter how big the screen size gets the media query is not Morgan and we can refresh all
day long.
And this is not going to change.
And the reason for that is because the smallest syntax error in this case even as simple as just leaving
on this place and pretty much everything is going to be messed up.
Now I can tell you right away my biggest issue is always writing something like this.
So I do it something like this and then I'm looking for three days whereas might be a query and I'd
understand whether it's a browsers fault or anything like that because obviously my spelling is not
the best.
So I always have issues with the with.
That's just something from my book to let you know to maybe you so you can avoid it.
And now let's go back and let's say I had another one and now this is gonna be the kicker where even
this is gonna be starting from men with have so many sex in this case I obviously would want to have
some bigger screen set so let's say this is not going to be seven I'm sorry five only six we're going
to say seven 68 so once we get seven 68 then we're going to flip it around again.
So here we can do green again for the body.
The background for the banner is gonna be blue again.
The color I don't know could be red red and maybe let's add some another property here but I'm just
thinking what kind of property a crab with a text maybe let's do next a line and not center.
We can do maybe right and that is gonna work out or you know even more fun when it's at a fun family
of Verdun.
So the moment we're gonna get to 768 then we're gonna get over Donner.
Let me double check whether I corrected my mistakes that I did on purpose.
Otherwise as I was laying to work and we're gonna head over right now to the bigger browser window.
So we have less than five only six.
The moment we get past 576 and obviously again in my case a 5 zoomed in.
This is obviously going to be on a bigger screen size but as I keep going.
Notice what happened the moment we get to 776.
I have all kinds of things happening here.
I have Verdun I have text right and I have the backgrounds and everything all that and this is again
to show you that this is how we would work with media queries.
Again very very basic example throughout the project we're gonna be using a lot more different properties
and this is gonna look much better but the general idea would be like this.
Now we also have an option of max width now for the max with.
Let me just flip this around.
So first of all I'm just going to comment this out.
And then what we would want is the same syntax WE'RE ALL GONNA WRITE Max with know how the max with
is going work.
Well the max with is saying up to.
So we technically flip this around since we already had here the rules.
Wherever you see us as properties and values we are saying here up to this 576 we all gonna have these
values.
So these are gonna be the values that are being shown.
However if we're going to get past 576 notice what happens.
So these are our original styles that we wrote.
So what we're saying here is up to the 576 and then we're gonna go back to whatever styles we wrote
over here.
Now one thing that we need to be careful with Max with is that we can easily overwrite this.
So if I'm gonna comment this out again and if I'm gonna say Max with rom 768 and again let me select
this here let's say Max.
And this is not what I wanted to do.
Let's say Max with.
Now once I write 768 What do you think is gonna happen right now.
I'm writing here up to five seventy six and then I have another Max with 760.
So if I'm writing here up to 760.
Do you think.
Which style is going to be shown on the screen render in the browser.
Well we can already see on the right hand side that this is gonna be the 768.
And again the reasoning for that would be that we're saying the max with four five seventy but seven
sixty eight includes this.
So we're overwriting it anyway.
What we are saying is.
OK.
Yeah.
You said five Sony Six.
Well what I'm saying is that I would like to have the 768 but again the interesting thing over here
is even if I'm gonna change it here and if I'm gonna say I don't know 40 pixels I'm still gonna be getting
this rally.
So even though I'm writing here 768 I'm overriding this I don't know what the font size right.
So that's what's happening.
But let's start out with some kind of property that maybe is not affected in the banner.
Now we already know the border radius more radius and that could be a. not 20 pixels.
Now once I say it this is what happens.
So that banner even though it is Max with up to five Sunni six we're still getting this right now.
The border radius because we are not overwriting it over here.
So this is gonna happen with the properties that we overwriting and this is the case where you need
to be really careful.
So if you're going to have some kind of properties here that you're not overriding this 768 then they're
obviously still going to be shown.
So that's something that you need to pay attention to.